The authors present a design of a 5-joint, 4 degree of actuation upper
limb exoskeleton for rehabilitation purposes, with a high gear ratio
transmission. This makes the exoskeleton non-backdrivable. The main
contribution is the evaluation of three different control architectures
for the joints. The authors compare a Full State Feedback Controller, a
`basic' state feedback controller (a simple proportional-derivative
task space controller), and a passivity based controller. A summary of
the hardware design is given, along with an observer architecture to
estimate the derivatives of the angle from encoder measurements.

While many of the techniques are standard, what is commendable is that
the authors implemented this control architecture in real hardware. The
importance of this should not be understated. This represents a
significant amount of work. With some revisions to enhance the clarity
of the presentation, This could be an impactful paper.

The biggest issue I have with the paper is that the reader has to get
to the end of the paper to discover what the authors' central
contribution is. The thesis of the paper, found in the conclusion, is
that it provides evidence that with a suitable control architecture, it
is not necessary for a rehabilitation upper limb exoskeleton to be
backdrivable by the user. This is important. However, from the start of
the paper, it is not clear where the paper is going. The introduction
is overly long, and cites work only loosely related to the work
presented, e.g. works on lower limb exoskeletons. It then launches into
the (previously published) description of the hardware, and the
narrative as written gives the impression that this is a paper about a
new exoskeleton, when in fact the novelty is the control architecture
for the exoskeleton, particularly a comparative hardware evaluation of
several alternatives. This should be made clear from the outset, even
in the abstract. The abstract should list the types of controllers
evaluated and which was found to be superior in the given context.

Throughout the paper, there are some odd choices that were made in the
work. For example, to combat misalignment of the strain gauge on the
spring element of the torque sensor, the authors use a neural network
with training data. There are well-established methods to address this,
such as differential pairs and using a hardware calibration. Why the
neural network? It seems to cost more in the way of development for
something that is less reliable. The two-mass model in Fig. 11 is used
to approximate the linkages of the robot, but this neglects the dynamic
equations of this links. Some justification might be found for this in
the fact that the gear ratio is on the order of 100, but the authors
make no such justification, then they mention joint torques due to
centripetal and coriolis terms, which would suggest they are including
these terms, but the narrative is ambiguous. They speak of a natural
frequency in the discussion around Fig. 12, which suggests a
linearization was performed (where the resonance would shift with
operating point). Fig. 12 shows the magnitude plot but not the phase
plot. The phase would be illustrative of how well the linearization
captures the behavior of the system. The estimation architecture in
(13) appears to be a predictor architecture only, yet (17) suggests a
sort of Leuenberger Observer architecture (although they call it a
Kalman Filter) No indication of how the observer gains were calculated
or covariance matrices used is given. I am also not clear on why they
needed to observe the joint accelerations to implement the controller.
Typically in robotic systems (and others driven by Newtonian Mechanics)
the acceleration is not a state of the system (unless it happens to
emerge in place of other positions and velocities by some state
transformation). The rationale for observing the second derivative is
not clear. Equation (17) and the surrounding discussion does not help
the reader evaluate what physical quantities correspond to y (other
than looking at the products of the state), and in the block diagram on
the next page it seems that torque is what is measured, so it
ambiguous. It was not clear why in the experiment they had the user
grab the end effector of the exoskeleton rather than wearing it. If the
user is wearing the exoskeleton, there would likely be forced applied
to the various links along their length, which would "break" the
traditional formulation that depends on computing joint torques through
the Jacobian transpose, which may call into question some of the
formulation presented.

In section IV, the three controller types are listed, but it would be
helpful to say, "We evaluated three different controllers". Until the
end of the narrative, I was under the false impression that the other
two controllers were embellishments of the first, whereas they were
three completely disparate solutions.

By and large the figures are well done. I might suggest that the
authors display Fig. 21 in three-dimensional space rather than three
separate curves superimposed on the same plot for each coordinate. 

The authors also have several English mistakes that appear throughout,
for example, using "performances" instead of "performance", and often
use the wrong preposition in idomatic expressions, e.g. "inspired to"
rather than "inspired by". There are also several long wordy
expressions, e.g. "due to the absence of elastic or damping elements",
which should be expressed more concisely in English, e.g. "which have
no elastic or damping elements". These are minor, but should be
resolved in a revision as they disrupt the reader.

Ultimately I believe that a new draft that is tightly focused and
guides the reader to understand the key elements of the work conducted
and its significance throughout the read, rather than finally
understanding during the discussion section, it will be a good paper.