Major Contribution of the Paper:
This paper reports on the development and implementation of a compact
elastic actuated joint with integrated torque sensing for use in
feedback control schemes. A further contribution of the paper is the
development and comparison of three different control schemes,
implementing full state, basic, and passivity-based control.

Organization and Style:
The paper is well organized into main sections of System Design,
Dynamic Modeling, and a combined section of Experiments and Results.
The details of the experiments performed with the controllers are
scarce, and should be elaborated for greater clarity. Phrases like "the
experimenter pushed the end-effector on the surface" leave the
direction of pushing unclear. Was there any instruction or consistency
in the forces applied (e.g., planar, orthogonal to the surface, etc.)?

Technical Accuracy:
The text is mostly technically accurate with some usage of ambiguous
terms as mentioned above. However, it should be noted that there are 44
equations within the main paper and the Appendix, and these should be
reviewed carefully by the authors for accuracy. 

Presentation:
The clarity of text is a bit sporadic. It is clear and professional
throughout much if the writing. However, there are numerous
grammatically awkward phrases and some examples of unclear text needing
rewording for clarity. It is therefore recommended that the work be
proofread by a native English speaker. Some examples are provided in
the comments below. Also, there are currently 22 individual figures.
Some of these would be better organized as subfigures together with
other closely-related images, diagrams, or illustrations, to lessen the
burden on the reader of drawing connections between aspects of the
work. Figures 6, 8, and 9, for example are highly related and it could
be argued that they could easily be merged into a single, more cohesive
figure. Other sections could benefit from additional figures, such as
the experimental setup. There is not figure in the paper that shows the
device in use by a user to illustrate how the arm is configured
relative to the joints and end-effector. Some text seems to insinuate
that the hand holds the end-effector but the rest of the joints are not
aligned with the anatomical joints of the user. Images of the testing
setup would help alleviate such ambiguity.

Citations appear adequate.

Additional Comments:
There are numerous grammatical inconsistencies involving the use of
plurals and prepositions.

Abstract: "for several applications" seems vague and irrelevant in the
opening sentence.

Abstract: influence performances in term of --> influence performance
in terms of

Abstract: an other --> [another]

Abstract: complexity, maximum torque, transparency and haptic
capabilities --> complexity, maximum torque, transparency, and haptic
capabilities
This is a minor and common mistake, but lists of 3 or more things
should have a comma also before the "and". Check paper throughout,
including title. 

Some inconsistent formatting, missing plurals, missing oxford commas,
and incorrect verb tenses (noted in pdf). 

Some awkward formulation of infinitive verb forms: "allows to obtain"
should be replaced by "allows it to obtain" or "allows obtaining".
Check for similar throughout paper, e.g.: 
	capable to exert --> capable of exerting 
	capable to infer --> capable of inferring

Page 2: awkward phrasing: "for what concern transparency" -->
"regarding transparency"

Page 2: what does it mean to evaluate at geometrical level the
quantitative and qualitative behavior of the controller? This portion
of the introduction is important to provide the user with an
understandable overview of what's to come. Further effort should be
made to make the text more reader friendly and less ambiguous.

Page 3: controls --> "controllers" or "control schemes"

Page 3: it seems odd that the value of 3.7 is given for both weight and
inertia after the reduction. Is this a typo?

Page 4: why is R defined here in text when not used in the equations
(1) and (2)?

Page 4: the strain gauges were placed at a distance of 3mm from the
extremities. How was this location determined besides just not being in
the middle and not beign too close to the end?

Fig.8: some small text and the arrow pointing to the location of the
sensor is not clear. Location of probe is not visible at all in black
and white.

Page 5: avoid using "(n+1)-th" link. Referring to the n-th link is
okay, but n+1 would be less ambiguous as "link n+1".

Page 5: deputed to estimate --> employed to estimate?

Figure 12: this is a figure for 3 different joints, but only one curve
is shown. Do they all have the same curve? Is this just for the motor
or does it involve the link inertias as the term "Joint" would imply?

Figure 17: it's not clear from the figure if the observations made in
text are accurate. Although the position and acceleration are similar,
the plots in (a) and (b) have different scales on both x and y axes
which could contribute in part to the lower interaction torques. When
plots are compared, their axes should be scaled equally.

Figure 18: it would be nice to see the target circle, perhaps overlaid
in white, on the plot for reference.

Page 12: few details are provided about the controller evaluation
trials T1-T4 and the details provided use some ambiguous terms that
don't help to clarify what was done. Please revise and add text to
improve the clarity. 

For additional markup and suggested revisions, see attached pdf.